
ROC curve of three predictors of peptide cleaving in the proteasome.
In statistics, a receiver operating characteristic curve, i.e. ROC curve, is a graphical plot that illustrates the diagnostic ability of a binary classifier system as its discrimination threshold is varied. The Total Operating Characteristic (TOC) expands on the idea of ROC by showing the total information in the two-by-two contingency table for each threshold. ROC gives only two bits of relative information for each threshold, thus the TOC gives strictly more information than the ROC

The ROC curve is created by plotting the true positive rate (TPR) against the false positive rate (FPR) at various threshold settings. The true-positive rate is also known as sensitivity, recall or probability of detection[2] in machine learning. The false-positive rate is also known as the fall-out or probability of false alarm[2] and can be calculated as (1 − specificity). It can also be thought of as a plot of the Power as a function of the Type I Error of the decision rule (when the performance is calculated from just a sample of the population, it can be thought of as estimators of these quantities). The ROC curve is thus the sensitivity as a function of fall-out. In general, if the probability distributions for both detection and false alarm are known, the ROC curve can be generated by plotting the cumulative distribution function (area under the probability distribution from {\displaystyle -\infty } -\infty  to the discrimination threshold) of the detection probability in the y-axis versus the cumulative distribution function of the false-alarm probability on the x-axis.
